## Syllabus

[Expect some changes]

### When and where?

- The lectures will be on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 3 pm to 4:30 pm.

- The lectures will be held in ESB building, Room 4192.

- This course does not have a lab session run by TAs. 


### Purpose:

This is a (mostly) applied graduate course on inference & computation in statistical models with non-normal response variables. Students will learn how to:
- fit, characterize uncertainty in, and assess logistic regression models for binary response data
- fit, characterize uncertainty in, and assess Poisson regression models for count data
- fit, characterize uncertainty in, and assess regression models with exponential family response variables
- use the likelihood ratio test to assess when there is enough evidence to choose a more complex model over a simpler one
- identify overdispersion in data and augment a GLM with a dispersion parameter to address it
- perform model selection in GLMs
- selected topic (TBD)

Students will be primarily evaluated through a combination of homework assignments, a course project, and active participation in the class (completing activities, presenting solutions, doing bonus exercises, sharing course notes).

### Prerequisite Knowledge:

- linear algebra (vectors, matrices, inverse, eigenvalues/decompositions, positive (semi)definiteness, symmetric matrices)

- multivariable calculus (gradient, hessian, basic optimization)

- undergraduate statistics (basic estimation and inference, linear regression, probability theory)

### Lecture Format:

In each lecture session, we will have a ~ 50 minute lecture followed by ~ 30 minute activity. 

- Bring your laptop to class! 

- Check and read the **Readings** (in the schedule) suggested prior to each lecture

To be updated: Please make sure you have your software environment set up prior to the course beginning; see the test_notebook.ipynb and Software Setup page for more info.


### Topics

| Lecture | Topic |
| ------- | ----- |
| 1 | review of linear models: fitting, tests, diagnostics |
| 2 | binary data, logistic regression |
| 3 | count data, poisson regression |
| 4 | exponential families and GLMs |
| 5 | fitting GLMs |
| 6 | deviance, tests, intervals |
| 7 | overdispersion & negative binomial regression | 
| 8 | model selection |
| 9 | TBD |
| 10 | TBD |
| 11 | Students presentations |
| 12 | Students presentations |

### Grading policy:

Late assignments and course projects will receive a 10% penalty per day. Students may request a regrade up to 1 week after receiving their graded work.

#### Grade Breakdown

| Deliverable | Point Value |
| ----------  | ----------- |
| Participation | 15 |
| Homework 1 | 20 | 
| Homework 2 | 20 |
| Project | 45 |


### Recommended Textbooks:

- Roback & Legler, "Beyond Multiple Linear Regression: Applied Generalized Linear Models and Multilevel Models in R," [Online version](https://bookdown.org/roback/bookdown-BeyondMLR/)

- Dobson & Barnett, "Introduction to Generalized Linear Models," 3rd ed, CRC Press.

- McCullagh & Nelder, "Generalized Linear Models," 2nd ed, CRC Press.

- McCulloch & Searle, "Generalized, Linear, and Mixed Models," Wiley.

- Faraway, "Extending the Linear Model with R," CRC Press.

- Park & Hastie, "L1-regularization path algorithm for generalized linear models," JRSS-B 2007.

### UBC Statement:

UBC provides resources to support student learning and to maintain healthy lifestyles but recognizes that sometimes crises arise and so there are additional resources to access including those for survivors of sexual violence. UBC values respect for the person and ideas of all members of the academic community. Harassment and discrimination are not tolerated nor is suppression of academic freedom. UBC provides appropriate accommodation for students with disabilities and for religious and cultural observances. UBC values academic honesty and students are expected to acknowledge the ideas generated by others and to uphold the highest academic standards in all of their actions. 

### Attribution

This syllabus was slighly modified from a previous version developed by Prof Trevor Campbell.
